Just one quick word before we begin for
the absence of doubt.
We're not selling any products here,
any specific services.
This is purely for
educational purposes in our course.
FinTech has evolved over the last
decade or so fairly rapidly.
It has begun to significantly
influence business and
business development in
the financial services industry.
There are a number of potential
definitions here, but
one that is most useful I think
is that proposed by Morningstar.
FinTech companies are those businesses
that leverage technology to create better
and perhaps new financial services
both for consumers and businesses.
Including companies of
all kinds operating and
personal financial management,
insurances, payments, remittances,
asset management, liability management,
retirement management and
a broad cross section of products and
services stemming from all of those.
This would include of course,
is using questions of blockchain,
applications of big data technology,
artificial intelligence,
deep learning, thin learning,
natural language processing.
Automated technology applied to
customer relationship management,
robo-advising in a business
to investor setting, both for
defined benefit and
defined contribution investors.
Automated and
technological enablement in the insurance
industry including rapid underwriting and
ongoing monitoring of properties and
lives, and human behaviors.
Payments, cash management,
lending platforms and
numerous other areas which of course,
can expand to include really all areas
of the financial services industry.
At the core, the main goals of
FinTech are reducing transactions and
service costs, as well as reaching
market segments that are untapped or
new, and which would otherwise
be potentially impractical,
too costly, too uneconomic to engage.
Creating or taking advantage
of economies of scale, and
improving customer experience.
Potentially allowing the possibility
of segmenting the marketplace,
as we've already begun to see
in the robo-advisory space.